README.md, before:

# Signature Stamp Scaler

A Python application for processing and scaling signatures/stamps in images using computer vision techniques.

![Web Interface](screenshots/web_interface.png)

*The web interface showing the main concept: upload an image with a signature/stamp and ruler, get a processed output with transparent background and proper scaling.*

## Features

- Image processing with ruler detection for scaling
- Gradio web interface for easy usage
- Support for various image formats
- Debug mode for troubleshooting

## Requirements

- Python 3.11+
- See `requirements.txt` for full dependency list

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/thupalo/signature-stamp-scaler.git
cd signature-stamp-scaler
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Web Interface (Gradio)

**Local Access Only:**
```bash
python ruler_gradio.py --local
```

**Network Access (accessible from other computers):**
```bash
python ruler_gradio.py
```

**Custom Host and Port:**
```bash
python ruler_gradio.py --host 192.168.1.100 --port 8080
```

**Public Share Link (via Gradio's tunneling service):**
```bash
python ruler_gradio.py --share
```

**Web Interface Options:**
- `--host` - Specify host IP (default: 0.0.0.0 for all interfaces)
- `--port` - Specify port number (default: 7860)
- `--share` - Create public Gradio share link for internet access
- `--local` - Run in local-only mode (127.0.0.1)

**Accessing from Other Computers:**
1. Find your computer's IP address: `ipconfig` (Windows) or `ifconfig` (Linux/Mac)
2. Ensure Windows Firewall allows the port (default 7860)
3. Other computers can access via: `http://YOUR_IP:7860`

### Command Line
The command line interface processes images by detecting rulers, cropping the image, and saving it with the correct scale.

**Basic Usage:**
```bash
python ruler_01.py input_image.jpg output_image.png
```

**Command Line Arguments:**
- `input_path` - Path to input image (JPEG or PNG format)
- `output_path` - Path to output PNG file (will auto-append .png if not specified)

**Options:**
- `-d, --debug` - Enable debug output for troubleshooting
- `--overwrite` - Overwrite output file if it exists without prompting

**Examples:**
```bash
# Basic usage
python ruler_01.py examples/image.jpg processed_output.png

# With debug mode enabled
python ruler_01.py examples/image.jpg output.png --debug

# Overwrite existing file without prompt
python ruler_01.py input.jpg output.png --overwrite
```

**Supported Input Formats:** `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, `.png`  
**Output Format:** `.png` (automatically enforced)

## Dependencies

- Pillow - Image processing
- OpenCV - Computer vision operations
- NumPy - Numerical operations
- Matplotlib - Plotting and visualization
- Gradio - Web interface
- Requests - HTTP requests

## Project Structure

- `ruler_01.py` - Main processing module
- `ruler_gradio.py` - Gradio web interface
- `requirements.txt` - Python dependencies
- `examples/` - Example images for testing

## License

This project is available under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Add business-oriented description emphasizing mobile photo to professional image transformation

README.md, after:

# Signature Stamp Scaler

**Transform any mobile phone photo of a signature or stamp into a professional, properly scaled image with transparent background.** Simply include a ruler in your photo, and this application automatically detects it to ensure precise scaling while removing the background for immediate use in documents and digital workflows. Perfect for digitizing physical signatures and stamps without expensive scanning equipment.

![Web Interface](screenshots/web_interface.png)

*The web interface showing the main concept: upload an image with a signature/stamp and ruler, get a processed output with transparent background and proper scaling.*

## Features

- Image processing with ruler detection for scaling
- Gradio web interface for easy usage
- Support for various image formats
- Debug mode for troubleshooting

## Requirements

- Python 3.11+
- See `requirements.txt` for full dependency list

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/thupalo/signature-stamp-scaler.git
cd signature-stamp-scaler
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Web Interface (Gradio)

**Local Access Only:**
```bash
python ruler_gradio.py --local
```

**Network Access (accessible from other computers):**
```bash
python ruler_gradio.py
```

**Custom Host and Port:**
```bash
python ruler_gradio.py --host 192.168.1.100 --port 8080
```

**Public Share Link (via Gradio's tunneling service):**
```bash
python ruler_gradio.py --share
```

**Web Interface Options:**
- `--host` - Specify host IP (default: 0.0.0.0 for all interfaces)
- `--port` - Specify port number (default: 7860)
- `--share` - Create public Gradio share link for internet access
- `--local` - Run in local-only mode (127.0.0.1)

**Accessing from Other Computers:**
1. Find your computer's IP address: `ipconfig` (Windows) or `ifconfig` (Linux/Mac)
2. Ensure Windows Firewall allows the port (default 7860)
3. Other computers can access via: `http://YOUR_IP:7860`

### Command Line
The command line interface processes images by detecting rulers, cropping the image, and saving it with the correct scale.

**Basic Usage:**
```bash
python ruler_01.py input_image.jpg output_image.png
```

**Command Line Arguments:**
- `input_path` - Path to input image (JPEG or PNG format)
- `output_path` - Path to output PNG file (will auto-append .png if not specified)

**Options:**
- `-d, --debug` - Enable debug output for troubleshooting
- `--overwrite` - Overwrite output file if it exists without prompting

**Examples:**
```bash
# Basic usage
python ruler_01.py examples/image.jpg processed_output.png

# With debug mode enabled
python ruler_01.py examples/image.jpg output.png --debug

# Overwrite existing file without prompt
python ruler_01.py input.jpg output.png --overwrite
```

**Supported Input Formats:** `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, `.png`  
**Output Format:** `.png` (automatically enforced)

## Dependencies

- Pillow - Image processing
- OpenCV - Computer vision operations
- NumPy - Numerical operations
- Matplotlib - Plotting and visualization
- Gradio - Web interface
- Requests - HTTP requests

## Project Structure

- `ruler_01.py` - Main processing module
- `ruler_gradio.py` - Gradio web interface
- `requirements.txt` - Python dependencies
- `examples/` - Example images for testing

## License

This project is available under the MIT License.
